NHtmlUnit
=========

NHtmlUnit is .NET friendly wrapper for HtmlUnit.

Introduction
----------

We really like the HtmlUnit project, which enables headless web testing without
needing to have a complete browser running.

By using IKVM it is possible to convert the HtmlUnit java library for use on.NET.

However it doesn't feel very natural to use a java library in a .NET language,
and therefore we created a NHtmlUnit wrapper.

Building NHtmlUnit
------------------

NHtmlUnit can be built using either msbuild or Visual Studio.

After building you can find NHtmlUnit.dll plus its dependencies here:

* app\NHtmlUnit\bin\Debug
* app\NHtmlUnit\bin\Release

An prepackaged binary is planned for release in the near future plus a
nuget package.

Usage
-----

For now there is no manual or API reference written for NHtmlUnit.

You can however use the HtmlUnit reference, as this wrapper almost completely
reflects the original API.

The difference is that java iterators, lists and collections are exposed as
their .NET-friendly counterparts (IEnumerable, IList and ICollection).

In addition properties are now "real" .NET properties. obj.getSomething() and
obj.setSomething() is wrapped as obj.Something;

NHtmlUnitGenerator
------------------

Note that this only needs to be run when HtmlUnit jar file has changed!

When NHtmlUnitGenerator is run it will overwrite all files
in app\NHtmlUnit\Generated.

Note that it doesn't do anything with the project files, so if classes are
added or removed from the origin HtmlUnit jar file this will not be
synchronized. You have to manually add new files to the project.

License
-------

NHtmlUnit is licensed under the Apache License Version 2.0, which is the same
license used for HtmlUnit too.

Tech details
------------

NHtmlUnit has in large parts been autogenerated using the HtmlUnit jar file as input.

Although we consider NHtmlUnit itself to be of decent quality, the
NHtmlUnitGenerator is basically a large hack.

Future
------

A complete rewrite of the NHtmlUnitGenerator using Mono.Cecil would be nice,
although I'm unsure exactly how much this would do for the final product.

Authours
--------

NHtmlUnit was written by Asbjørn Ulsberg and Karsten Strand at OKB AS.
